---
title: "Habits of the Heart"
description: "The psalmist is saying good habits can take you to good places. And not just take you there but can help you put down good habits deep into the soil of God's redeeming love and no matter what season of life you find yourself in you will prosper in the things of God."
categories:
- devotion
---

<blockquote>
Blessed is the one<br />
    who does not walk in step with the wicked<br />
or stand in the way that sinners take<br />
    or sit in the company of mockers,<br />
but whose delight is in the law of the Lord,<br />
    and who meditates on his law day and night.<br />
That person is like a tree planted by streams of water,<br />
    which yields its fruit in season<br />
and whose leaf does not wither&emdash;<br />
    whatever they do prospers.<br />
Psalm 1:1-3
</blockquote>

The psalmist opens the book of Psalms with these words. "*Blessed is the one*..." It is a roundabout way to describe blessedness. But it starts with what blessedness doesn't do. It doesn't walk with the wicked, stand in the way of sinners, nor does it take a seat in the seat of the mockers.

It is interesting to note the progression in this journey. It starts with simply walking with someone through moments in life. But that walking takes on a different dimension when you begin to "walk in step with the wicked." It takes on a deeper meaning when you find yourself stopping and standing and stalling in the way of sinners. Finally, you find yourself sitting in the seat of the mockers or as the KJV puts it "the scornful."

To me the passage describes our habits and where they can take us. A simple "innocent" habit can open doors for other things in our lives. As that habit develops it grows and becomes more of a lifestyle and a predictor of future behaviour.

A Christian musical group, Casting Crowns, explains it this way...
<blockquote>
It's a slow fade<br />
When you give yourself away<br />
It's a slow fade<br />
When black and white have turned to grey<br />
And thoughts invade, choices made<br />
<br />
A price will be paid<br />
When you give yourself away<br />
People never crumble in a day
</blockquote>

I don't know if Casting Crowns had Psalm 1 in mind when they wrote their lyrics but it sounds descriptive. It is also imperative to note that the psalmist doesn't stop there. He continues and says, Blessed is in those *whose delight is in the law of the **Lord**, and who meditate on his law day and night. That person is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yield its fruit in season.*

In other words, the psalmist is saying good habits can take you to good places. And not just take you there but can help you put down good habits deep into the soil of God's redeeming love and no matter what season of life you find yourself in you will prosper in the things of God.

Thank you Jesus. Amen.